# VerdantSync

**VerdantSync** is a React Native application designed for managing and monitoring IoT (Internet of Things) devices. It seamlessly connects with boards using the [Verdant Sync IoT](https://github.com/nilspert/verdant-sync-iot) platform.

## Key Features

- **User Authentication**: Easily create accounts and sign in securely.
- **Devices Dashboard**: View and manage boards registered to Firebase.
- **Board Information**: Dive into detailed board info, including status updates like temperature, humidity, water tank levels, and more.
- **Event Logs**: Keep an eye on events generated by boards, categorized as INFO, WARNING, or ERROR.
- **Settings Hub**: Access various app settings.
- **User-Specific WiFi Configuration**: Set WiFi SSID preferences for boards you own.
- **Device Authorization**: Authorize or deauthorize devices; only authorized devices can send sensor data to Firebase.

## Getting Started

1. Clone this repository to your local machine.
2. Install dependencies using `npm install` or `yarn install`.
3. Configure your Firebase project and obtain the necessary details.
4. Duplicate `.env.example` as `.env.development`.
5. Update `.env.development` with your Firebase configuration.
6. Start the app with `npm start` or `yarn start`.

## Dependencies

- React Native
- Firebase
- React Navigation
- React Native Paper

## Building the App

The build process is streamlined with Expo Application Services (EAS).

- Log in to your Expo account with `eas login`.

### Environment Variables

Store environment variables as secrets in Expo Application Services (EAS) for builds.

1. Import secrets from `.env.development`:
```
   eas secret:push --scope project --env-file .env.development
```
2. Verify secrets:
```
   eas secret:list
```

### Android Build

Initiate the build using `yarn build`. This generates an APK available in the Expo Application Services 'Builds' section.

## License

This project is open-source and is licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE).

